what's up guys Nono here in this video
we'll learn how to create a 3D model
like this one and this by only using
your smartphone and you can use this 3D
model in any renderer be it lumion D5
render Unreal Engine or Corona render
and no you don't have to use an iPhone
for this it works both on Android and
iOS we are going to use a technique
called photogrammetry and what is
photogrammetry you ask to put it simple
it is a photography mapping technique of
objects and in our case it allows us to
take several photos of an object and
translate that into a 3D model the most
popular company doing this is quick saw
with their Mega scans from small plants
to massive Cliffs since it's a
photograph from The Real World the
results are super detailed realistic 3D
models and textures we are going to use
an app called polycam which you can
download from the app store on iOS or
the Play Store on Android after doing so
open the app and this is the interface
first you need to create an account this
way you have all your models on the
clouds
on the top you can see this light bulb
icon which has some tips on how to use
the app and take your photos as you can
see it's best to take photos from all
angles a minimum of 80 photos is
recommended and I suggest even taking
some close-up shots on the bottom left
we have this icon that says Auto this
will take automatically the photos also
press the start button I like to have
control of what photos I want to take so
I switch this to manual now there are a
couple of things you might want to do if
you want the best 3D model out of the
capture you are going to make you'll
have to shoot around the object so
either you place your object in a place
you can move around it or in my case I
went to Ikea and bought this round
kitchen wooden tray it's quite
affordable and perfect to take photos of
small to medium sized objects if you
have some light with a soft box I
recommend using it because this way you
will not have any harsh Shadows baked
into the texture of your 3D object if
you don't have any soft box just shoot
next to a window without direct sunlight
that works great as well by the way just
like my Instagram with your best scanned
3D models if you would like to get
featured on my Instagram stories now I
just placed the object in the center
hold my phone in the same position and
then I just rotate the plate for each
new photo
I take several photos from different
angles so I can capture all the details
as I mentioned before I also take some
close-up shots to get the best details
and by the way if you can't shoot
against the white wall or just put a
piece of paper in front of it so it will
be easier for the software to cut out
your object after you take all your
photos you can click here on the images
and see the photos you have taken you
can quickly swipe for them and if you
see one that is autofocus you can click
the trash icon to delete it here in the
detail section you can select which type
of processing you want if you're going
to use this for rendering I recommend
using the full since it has a higher
poly count and higher resolution
textures it also comes with all the
necessary Maps select use object masking
if you don't want the background to be
processed then just click here upload
and process to let the magic begin after
it's done it will show you the model on
your phone you can see this looks very
good and really detailed now on the
computer let's go to polycam.com and log
into our account we can see here all the
models we created let's click on this
one we can inspect here the model as
well
and now in the top right corner we have
the export button
I usually select fbx and obj fbx comes
with the textures already applied to the
object but I like to have them
separately as well so I download the obj
which comes with the texture separately
let's open the model in any 3D model
application and delete the areas we
don't need
save it and let's import it to any 3D
renderer in my case I'm going to load
the Italian
I just click import and then press OK
and as you can see it comes already with
all the textures applied I don't need to
do anything else let's just take a quick
render
it looks pretty good especially for a 3D
model that took less than 5 minutes to
make now let's load the same model in D5
render we will click this icon to import
and as you can see here we need to load
the textures so I'll go to the model
folder and load the textures
I'll adjust some values
and this is the final result
and again it's basically the same as the
real world object he looks really good
by the way you can use this polycam app
for free and get 100 captures or you can
subscribe for a monthly fee and get 154
captures per month and access all your
model captures on the web and Export to
all formats I hope you enjoyed this
tutorial and let me know in the comments
below what you think of this app for 3D
model scans don't forget to give it a
like and tag me on Instagram with your
3D scans to get features on my stories
and I'll see you in the next video